Home:


Company:
	About Us:
		Mr. Arana has managed the company from the very beginning without interruption.  Mr. Arana’s talent as a Developer Planner and his intensive surveying and other development experiences has been on of the cornerstones of Transamerican Engineers’ success and remarkable stability through decades of ups and downs in the US economy.  His passion for the work and his company is clearly revealed in the quality of the company's services and fine reputation at all levels of development.

		We have now entered a new era.  Technology has opened new doors in our profession.  Space technology is now with us.  We envision the years ahead full of professional excitement and we are ready to face new challenges.  With our forty-three years grass roots experience giving us the basic facts in project development together with the latest and best of Leica's Robotic Total Station and G.P.S. (Global Positioning System) will aid us in our continued chartering new successful ventures with the same dedication, pride and resolve.  We shall keep that same promise we made forty-three years ago.  





	Philosophy:
		Transamerican Engineers was founded on the bedrock of socio-economic realities.  Transamerican is another living sample of the American Dream, a fruit of sheer efforts, hard and productive work, positive, optomistic, straight forward honesty and pride in every action taken to accomplish the best work for those who we professionally serve.  We have taken all assignments as if we were in the same boat and battling the same rough seas with our clients.  There have been crucial and rough storms but we have always risen above and helped our clients navigate to the safe harbors of success with great pride for us.  PACIFIC MUTUAL

		Our professional life is not only an economic issue but instead a life challenge, a passion, a resource for good human values and social balance.  We have always enjoyed contributing to the success of all our clients.  Their success and our pride for our accomplishments is our mission.  Maybe this is the reason why we don't have memories of failures in our company's memoirs.  

		(WE COUNT TIME NOT BY HOURS, BUT BY EVENTS IN SUCCESSFUL PROJECTS)


	History:
		Forty three years of excellence in professional services passes vey quickly.  Compiling within this short report hundreds of exciting experiences of great professional success stories is practically impossible.  we are proud of all these years, we are most certainly very proud to have gained the confidence, and recognition of our professional efforts from the start as attested to in letters received from clients and city officials since 1961.

		Our projects have been widely accepted in California and beyond.  This is because we have compiled and in many cases exceeded cities and counties expectations while also exceeding developers' profits and neighborhood groups minimum standards.  It is not a wonder why we have not had rejections of any of our proposed Housing Community Developments through the years.

		We owe such success to our strong belief that for any project to be good it must satisfy all involved; cities interests, as well as those of the developers and neighborhoods where they are planned.

		We found that good common sense together with experience makes for wonderful projects.

		We further believe that our success is due to the fact that our projects are based upon good surveying information, which our field crews provide for our maps. Our extensive overall projects development experience has given us better parameters for the survey crew's field information gathering, which is one of the basic components of successful projects.

		Further looking back at over 4 decades of professional services we find that the common denominator to our success is our love of our work.  Without such caring of our profession, it would have been very difficult to have managed our projects through endless battles between clients' requests and needs and cities' requirements; between City Standards and job conditions; between projects' budgets and economic ups and downs.

		Finally, we take special pride to mention that throughout all these years we were never within a team at the wheel of a loosing project whether large or small.  This is not because we did not have difficult situations but because we put our utmost efforts to work when it was needed to save those projects.

		Without this passion for our work we would not now be able to look back at the past with the same joy and pride we now enjoy.

		This brief summary of our past is the profile of our business and personal character.  Now, as we are entering a more intense technological era together with all the ground root experiences of the past years the possibilities for greater success are endless.

		(OUT HISTORY IS INTERWOVEN WITH THAT OF OUR CLIENTS BY NUMEROUS PROJECT EVENTS/PROJECTS AND ENVENTS)



Services:
	Services:
		Our offices have been in San Francisco for the last 43 years.  Our long-standing practices of City Surveys is the continuation of the City's survey methodology, which we learned from those Surveyors in the City whose experiences date back to the early years of the last century.

		Within San Francisco Bay Area, we have been serving the Development Community with Architecture Site Survey, Boundary & Topographic Survey, Subdivisions, Condominium Maps and other related services.

		In this New Century, Transamerican Engineers is moving forward with the same energy and vitality that has characterized it for the last 4 decades.  We continue our dedication to fully and professionally serving architects, title companies, engineers, contractors, developers, investors and property owners with:
			Architectural Site Surveys:
				For building designers, architects, etc.  Experience has taught us the best and most appropriate processes for selecting, gathering and presenting essential facts and details to help designers/architects in their work by having at hand the information, which is essential for their work.  In San Francisco alone we have performed thousands of surveys in all sectors of the city and nearly within every block.

			ALTA Surveys:
				The careful Boundary Analysis, title issues together with quality plats for clear and expedient interpretation of all involved are part of our daily service.  Our work in this field of surveying has given us very good results, which we intend to maintain for years to come.

			Boudary Surveys:
				Are the keystone of our professional sevice.  Most of the work we perform is based upon properties holdings.  The proper interpretation of deeds descriptions and very accurate field surveys are the essence of our practice.  Surveys within the city of San Francisco where houses are built next to each other require special knowledge of the city survey methodology, as established form the very beginning by old City surveyors.  We faithfully follow their footsteps to maintain harmony and satisfaction among neighbors.

			Record of Surveys:
				Are filed when the field survey discloses material evidence of discrepancies with Records as to the position of Points or Lines

			Photogrammetric Control Points:
				For aerial topographic maps

			Topographic Surveys:
				For development studies, landscape architects or road designs.  We always attempt to provide no less than the minimum requirements based upon our experiences and good judgment.

			Parcel Maps:
				For smaller Subdivisions (2 to 4 lots), coordination with City and County officials for expediting the process.

			Subdivision Maps:
				For large Subdivisions (more than 5 lots)

			Condominium Maps:
				For conversions of existing buildings or new contruction

			Contruction Staking:
				Roads, streets, buildings, etc.

			Lot Line Adjustment Preparation:
				Legal Description/Property Title Studies

				For your review of typical drawings of the above tasks, please click on the section of your interest for a slide show of plans, maps or pictures.

	Additional Services:
		Now we have entered a new era.  Technology opened new doors in our profession.  Space technology is now with us.  We envision the years ahead full of professional excitement with our Global Position Systems GPS.  We now face new challenges.  With our 56 years grass roots experience giving us the basic an much needed facts in project development together with the lastest and best of Leica's Robotic.  Total Station and G.P.S. are incredible aids to expand our potential for even greater success.

		We continue to service our old areas small and large projects.
		We are also prepared to go beyond those limits in order to widen our scope and regions of our services.  We are equipped to offer:
			*Survey Controls for extensive Photogrammetric Surveys.
			*Large Boundary Studies and Topographic Surveys of streets and highways
			*Contruction Controls for roads and highways, airports and port facilities and other large developments
			*Structures and Geological Monitoring Surveys.
		We are now considering Hydrographic Surveys to be a new field of Surveying Services, which we hope we'll be offering in the near future
		


Clents:
	Mobile Home Communities:
		We Honor Our Roots:
			We would like to dedicate this page to honor our roots which are interwoven with those clients who have helped us to achieve our goals by supporting our vision for project innovations, trusting our character and encouraging our professional efforts.  Likewise, we honor and thank our current clientele who have helped us to maitain a continued and successful professional practice.

			We also honor and will not forget our charter staff with whom we took the first successful steps on this long road on which we continue traveling through with strong and dedicated team efforts.  Within the first 2 decades we were abel to provide our service within many states and over 50 different cities which resulted in trying tasks but very rewarding indeed.

			we honor our current staff with whom we work together on a daily basis to continue achieving a never-ending promise to serve our clientele to the best possible level of professional service.

			The following are names of our most remembered clients:

			TONY MARTINO
				is our first client in 1961.  For him we designed two Mobile Home Communities: Casa Mobile in Sacramento: 120 units and 175 units in Fairfield.
					(ref letter)
			
			Hugh Harn
				in 1965 Hugh trusted us to develop our totally new and innovated concept of Mobile Home Community living "Moon Valley" which became the greatest pride of our company and that of Mr. Harn the developer and applauded by City Planners from all around America.  The letters from public officials commenting on this development say a lot.
					(ref letter(s) 4)
					(slide show of Moon Valley)

				The great success of Moon Valley Land Planning and Engineering caused many cities to review their codes and their outlook towards Mobile Home living.  The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) invited Mr. Arana for a one day conference with Northern California Architectural Staff to discuss the new Mobile Home Community Concept.
					(ref letter)

			Julio Dougherty
				For Julio we designed and directed the contruction of a large Mobile Park in Marin County California.  Placing mobile homes in a 25% grade was a challenge that we prefer not to do too often.  The park was an instant success given the large demand in a county which always presented obstacles to approve others' proposed developments.  An artist's perspective of Marin Valley can be "seen here(hypertext to link)" 
				
				This work was very challenging: steep hard rocky slope difficult grading and utilities construction, which we had to confront with great courage and determination until completion and occupancy was granted.  This project gave us a great opportunity to exercise all our experience to overcome all adverse conditions, which we had to deal with.

			Chris Dalis
				For the Dalis family we designed a fine Mobile Home Community in Concord California.  At halfway of the project construction we had to rescue our client from the contractor of their choice who betrayed their confidence and friendship.  Because of our long and well founded experience in the Mobile Park Design and Construction we were able o salvage the Dalis family from a very difficult situation.
					(ref letter)
					(pictures slide show)

			Lee Brandenburg
				Our land planning and engineering service of Mr. Brandenburg was a great success.  He dared to construct the state's largest 581 units "Adobe wells" in Sunnyvale.  We accomplished a great success in our planning and engineeringas measured by the great acceptance of the project by the public at large.
					(publication)
					(ref letter)
					(picture)

			Ronald Sorensen
				of TDCI from Portland Oregon with special enthusiasm requested our service to bring to Oregon our innovated community design for a Mobile Home Community in King city "Royal Mobile Villas" near Portland.

				We were able to design for hime the best mobile home community in the Northwest.  We appreciated his confidence and enjoyed the great success of the development.  A portion of the development in featured in the cover of "CEE Publication(hypertext to link)"

	Housing Developments:
		Tony Martino
			In 1975: with Tony together we developed a fine community 40 acres 94 duplex lots, Marina Vista Subdivision in Sausalito
				(pictures)
				(ref letter)
			Tony remained our very good friend for all his life.

		Robert & Aguirre Novato 
			For Bob Roberts we designed numerous projects, subdivisions, mobile home parks, property surveys and master plans of different properties.
				(publications Hillsborough Heights)
				(ref letters)

			We have always believed that bridging the slopes with buildings it's only logical and a great savings for developers while avoiding hard to plant and maintain steep slopes.


		Stuart Bartleson
			of Atlantic and Pacific Bldg. Corporation.  We performed numerous successful projects.  With Stuart we enjoyed his trust and appreciation of our work very much.  For Stuart Company we designed Mobile Home Parks and large FHA Subdivisions in Petaluma, California as well as many other projects at different locations.
				(see ref letter)

		Bernard Orsi: Director General Brewing Corporation

			Mr. Orsi entrusted us with the planning and construction of a 250 lot subdivision in San Francisco.  We were in charge of planning and all coordination with the architect.  We prepared all final drawings including all streets, utilities and electrical system.  We were finally in charge of the construction, from selecting contractors to final inspections of the project under our comlete direction and responsibility as the General Contractor License No. 654300 "A" & "C10".  The project was completed under budget and with thousands of dollars in savings.  We take great pride in this successful venture.
				(award)
				(pictures)
				(ref letter)

			There are many other clients of project worthy of mention, which will soon be included in this report.  Among other:
				*A 1,500 units water oriented community Imperial Beach, California
 				*Hillside Subdivision in Marin County in extremely steep sloping grounds
				*Large Mobile Home Community and Major thoroughfare design connection to the freeway in Fremont, California
				*Planning a 1,500 Mobile Home Community in Florida
				*Large Vacation Development in Lake Berriesa


	san Francisco clients
		While based in San Francisco since 1961, we have done thousands of projects for numerous clients.  We had this pleasure to serve for all these years.  The following are a few of those who we have served with multiple city projects:

		Golden Gate Park Project
			This Project weas completed to the full satisfaction of the architects and City of San Francisco.  The maps were approved as presented for review.  No corrections were required.

				-Mr. George Fullerton
				-ACE Pacific

		san Francisco Redevelopment Agency 
			We perfored for this agency: Architectural Topographic Survey preparation within several blocks in San Francisco.

			Topographic Survey - 15 Portions of Blocks of Fillmore Street.  For Street Improvement & Hardscape.

			Joe Cassidy
				Cassidy Contruction
					Mr Cassidy is a successful developer in the city and has been our client for over 15 years.  Over the years, we have prepared for him Boundary & Topographic Surveys, Parcel Maps, Condo Maps, Street Improvement Plans, Lot Line Adjustment Applications and Legal Descriptions.

					The picture shown here is his latest completed project.

					We prepare all survey services required including Condominium Maps.

			Bruce Baumann
				Mr. Baumann is a Project Coordinator in the City and his father is an architect.  We have performed hundreds of surveys for them over teh last 20 years.

			Joe Imbelloni
				Imbelloni Construction
					We have worked for Mr. Imbelloni for many years and have prepared all of his Boundary & Topographic Surveys, Parcel & condo Maps, Street Improvement
					Plans and Legal Descriptions.
					Pictures shown hereon are those of his latest completed "Condo projects."

			John McInerney
				TRI coldwell Banker
					Mr. Mcinerney is a prominent attorney in San Francisco.  He is a very successful developer and also a client for whom we have prepared Site Surveys, Condo Maps and alike for his many great projects.

					The latest project that is under construction is a Mixed-Use Condominium, 52 units at 1600 Webster Street, San Francisco.\

			Gentium Homes
				For David Thomson of Gentium Homes, we were able to accomplish numerous tasks for the construction of Condominium buildings.

				All surveys need including construction staking and Condominium Maps were completed to his entire satisfaction.

				The picture shown here is that of Gentium Homes Condo.

					

			There are very many of the projects like the one above, unfortunately we are not able to show them all.

			The most important part of our professional service is the total client satisfaction, which has made us proud through all these years.	
	
Press:
	Press:
		Because of our spirit of innovation we are self-motivated to upgrade the ordinary and commonly accepted standards in Land Development Project Planning and Construction.

		The vision for Moon Valley was a simple and natural one for us.  Most of our efforts were to persuade developers to risk their investments in our vision.
			(slide show of Moon Valley)	

		The Moon Valley concept for a Mobile Home Community was widely welcome from coast to coast.

	Publications:
		"California Builders:'Field for Home Builders' (hypertext link)"

		"Mobile Shangri-La (hypertext link)"

		Oakland Tribune in reference to "Dalis Garden in Concord (hypertext link)," which was basically designed with the Moon Valley concept.

		Oakland Tribune November 1970 in reference to "'Las Casita' in Napa (hypertext link)," California

		The Mountain Democrat Time in reference to "El Dorado Hill West (hypertext link)"
		
		DEE Magazine in reference to "'Royal Villas' in Portland (hypertext link)", Oregon

		California Builders Magazine regarding Subdivision Planning.  "'Hinding banks under hillside home cut costs' (hypertext link)".

		There are many more too numerous to mention all of them

		In the surveying field, Mr. Arana invented & published "'Arana's Curve Computer'(hypertext link)" to be used by surveyors in the layout of curvilinear structures such as streets, highways, walls, etc.  Surveyors could double or triple their day's work when electronic computers were not even in the surveyors' horizon.


CONTACT:
	Address:
		Transamerican Engineers
		Fox Plaza
		1390 Market Street, Suite #201
		San Francisco, CA 94102
		T. 415.553.4092, F. 415.553.4071

		If you wish to inquire about services from our company: bpierce@transamericanengineers.com


	Job Opportunity:
		Our company is always interested in hearing from outstanding, committed and enthusiastic individuals in joining our team.

			Field Land Surveyors
				with 8 year min. experience in Boundary, ALTA & Topographic Surveys.  TDS Data Collector, some AutoCAD and AUTODESK Program

			Office Surveyor:
				To prepare, coordinate, check and correct all field & office work per office standard procedures.  Prepare proposals to clients under office mangager direction.  Prepare and mange Working Schedule and Job Cost Control.  Good knowledgeof AutoCAD AUTODESK program are required for this position

			Hydrographic Surveyor
				with the required and proven experience to start and help to manage a New Hydrographic Survey Department from a yacht branch/field office.  Only for High qualified applicant.

			Draftsman
				Min. 8 years experience in AutoCAD with some surveying drafting experience

			All benefits are available for Permanent Employees.
			Top salary for each position offered.

			Please send resume by email to:
				bpierce@transamericanengineers.com


			

			
			